README.md, before:

# Meteor server info

- A NPM version (derivative work) of [percolate:server-info]
- Rewritten in TypeScript 3 for Meteor 1.6-1.8
- Without the AWS-specific and extra sections, not relevant for most usages.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fgm/meteor_server_info.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fgm/meteor_server_info)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/fgm/meteor_server_info/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/fgm/meteor_server_info)
[![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/fgm/meteor_server_info/badge.svg?targetFile=package.json)](https://snyk.io/test/github/fgm/meteor_server_info?targetFile=package.json)

## Usage

Once installed and configured, the package provides 

- a public metrics documentation route, available by default on 
  `/serverInfo/doc` where all exposed metrics are documented
- a metrics values route available with HTTP Basic authentication, by 
  default on `/serverInfo`, like the following one:

![Example Meteor Server Info result](screenshot.png)


## Installation

- Like the original version, this project needs the MDG [Facts] package, but not
the `facts-ui`package. So from the project directory, add both dependencies:
  ```bash
  meteor add facts
  meteor yarn add meteor_server_info
  ```
- Then, in the main JS file of the server part of the application, add code to
  initialize the package: 
    ```ecmascript 6
    import ServerInfo from "meteor_server_info";
    
    Meteor.startup(function () {
      const serverInfo = new ServerInfo(Meteor, WebApp, MongoInternals, Facts);
      serverInfo.register();
    });
    ```
- Edit the Meteor settings, at least to change the user and password.
- Run your application normally


## Configuration

The packages takes configuration from `Meteor.settings`, in which it uses the
following server keys:

- `path`: the path on which the information is made available. Defaults to 
  `/serverInfo`, unlike the original version which defaulted to `/info`.
- `user`: the user account for the HTTP Basic authentication securing access.
  Defaults to `insecure`.
- `pass`: the password for the user account. Defaults to `secureme`.

[percolate:server-info]: https://atmospherejs.com/percolate/server-info
[Facts]: https://atmospherejs.com/meteor/facts
[screenshot]: screenshot-todos.png


## Usage note

Metrics exposed by the module can easily be imported to Grafana using the `http`
plugin. Be sure to import data from all your Meteor server instances, since
metrics are reported per-server, not per-database.
 

## License

As the original [percolate:server-info] package was licensed under the 
permissive MIT license, this derivative work has been relicensed under the
General Public License version 3 or later (SPDX: GPL-3.0+).  


## Changelog

* 1.2.0
  * Converted to TypeScript 3, with increased coverage
  * Compatibility with Meteor 1.7 and 1.8.
* 1.1.2
  * updated documentation
  * Travis CI tests
  * CodeCov coverage analysis.
* 1.1.1
  * include RAM / CPU metrics
* 1.0.1
  * added an explicit dev dependency on marked 0.3.9 to work around 
    https://github.com/jsdoc3/jsdoc/issues/1489 - can be removed once jsdoc
    updates its dependency to that level.
  * updated JsDoc to 3.5.5
  * fixed JsDoc configuration so that npm run doc actually works
* 1.0.0: initial version
  * For Meteor 1.6.x

Commit message:

Issue #3: Event Loop code and doc moved to main src/.
- Fixed some TSLint issues in other metrics collectors.

README.md, after:

# Meteor server info

- A NPM version (derivative work) of [percolate:server-info]
- Rewritten in TypeScript 3 for Meteor 1.6-1.8
- Without the AWS-specific and extra sections, not relevant for most usages.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fgm/meteor_server_info.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fgm/meteor_server_info)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/fgm/meteor_server_info/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/fgm/meteor_server_info)
[![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/fgm/meteor_server_info/badge.svg?targetFile=package.json)](https://snyk.io/test/github/fgm/meteor_server_info?targetFile=package.json)

## Usage

Once installed and configured, the package provides 

- a public metrics documentation route, available by default on 
  `/serverInfo/doc` where all exposed metrics are documented
- a metrics values route available with HTTP Basic authentication, by 
  default on `/serverInfo`, like the following one:

![Example Meteor Server Info result](screenshot.png)


## Installation

- Like the original version, this project needs the MDG [Facts] package, but not
the `facts-ui`package. So from the project directory, add both dependencies:
  ```bash
  meteor add facts
  meteor yarn add meteor_server_info
  ```
- Then, in the main JS file of the server part of the application, add code to
  initialize the package: 
    ```ecmascript 6
    import ServerInfo from "meteor_server_info";
    
    Meteor.startup(function () {
      const serverInfo = new ServerInfo(Meteor, WebApp, MongoInternals, Facts);
      serverInfo.register();
    });
    ```
- Edit the Meteor settings, at least to change the user and password.
- Run your application normally


## Configuration

The packages takes configuration from `Meteor.settings`, in which it uses the
following server keys:

- `path`: the path on which the information is made available. Defaults to 
  `/serverInfo`, unlike the original version which defaulted to `/info`.
- `user`: the user account for the HTTP Basic authentication securing access.
  Defaults to `insecure`.
- `pass`: the password for the user account. Defaults to `secureme`.
- `eventLoopStrategy`: the strategy to use to instrument the event loop and CPU
  - `cheap`: similar to [PM2] or [pebble/event-loop-lag]; low CPU cost : expect 
    around 0.5% on 2019 hardware,
    very limited accuracy, will usually under-estimate the loop latency.
  - `costly`: inspired by a [Dynatrace article], a much more accurate strategy,
    tracing each tick of the event loop ; this is much more costly since this
    disables the event loop "poll phase wait" optimization: expect 5% on 2019 hardware
  - `nr`: inspired by NewRelic CPU time per tick, a more intuitive metric, built
    on top of the `costly` algorithm, with an extra CPU cost: expect 6% on 2019
    hardware.

[pebble/event-loop-lag]: https://github.com/pebble/event-loop-lag
[percolate:server-info]: https://atmospherejs.com/percolate/server-info
[PM2]: https://github.com/keymetrics/pmx/blob/1.3/lib/default_probes/pacemaker.js
[Facts]: https://atmospherejs.com/meteor/facts
[screenshot]: screenshot-todos.png
[Dynatrace article]: https://medium.com/the-node-js-collection/what-you-should-know-to-really-understand-the-node-js-event-loop-and-its-metrics-c4907b19da4c


## Usage note

Metrics exposed by the module can easily be imported to Grafana using the `http`
plugin. Be sure to import data from all your Meteor server instances, since
metrics are reported per-server, not per-database.
 
Note that since the `costly` and `nr` strategies disable the event loop poll 
phase wait optimization, the idle ticks/minute rate will be around 60k and go
lower with increased load. There is a tradeoff to be done: CPU cost vs accuracy.
 
The high cost of these strategies is a consequence of the limitations of the 
Node.JS event loop JavaScript API, requiring workarounds. For accurate metrics 
with lower metric acquisition cost, a binary agent is required: AppDynamics, 
Dynatrace, NewRelic and others offer this type of solution, the tradeoff in 
that case being CPU cost vs monthly SaaS cost.
 

## License

As the original [percolate:server-info] package was licensed under the 
permissive MIT license, this derivative work has been relicensed under the
General Public License version 3 or later (SPDX: GPL-3.0+).  


## Changelog

* (WIP) 1.2.1
  * Node.JS EventLoop and CPU metrics, 3 strategies at different accuracy and cost levels
  * TypeScript 3.2 
* 1.2.0
  * Converted to TypeScript 3, with increased coverage
  * Compatibility with Meteor 1.7 and 1.8.
* 1.1.2
  * updated documentation
  * Travis CI tests
  * CodeCov coverage analysis.
* 1.1.1
  * include RAM / CPU metrics
* 1.0.1
  * added an explicit dev dependency on marked 0.3.9 to work around 
    https://github.com/jsdoc3/jsdoc/issues/1489 - can be removed once jsdoc
    updates its dependency to that level.
  * updated JsDoc to 3.5.5
  * fixed JsDoc configuration so that npm run doc actually works
* 1.0.0: initial version
  * For Meteor 1.6.x
